Title: Minutes 2007-09-20
Date: 2007-09-20
Category: minutes
Slug: minutes/2007-09-20
Tags: storage, m0n0wall, mythtv, soekris, ubuntu, distros, advocacy, wifi
Authors: stevenix

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
Deep thinking - adds a new diemnison to it all.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

Agenda
======

Minutes
=======

Note taker: phliver

*   opello's soekris router
    *  CF card for data storage.
    *  Updated via web interface.
    *  Runs m0n0wall
    *  Soekris hardware
*   MythTV
    *  No more zap2it labs, moving to Schedules Direct
    *  Schedules Direct used to cost \$15 for 90 days, now \$15 for 6
       months. More price drops planned in the future.
    *  Schedules Direct is a non profit created by the community. Makes
       it a little easier to justify paying for the service.
    *  Flash player built in to the MythTV web interface can be found
       in subversion.
*   Ubuntu
    *  Next version, Gutsy Gibbon (7.10) Blueprints
    *  Release date planned for the 18th of October, 2007
    *  After Gutsy Gibbon will be the Hardy Herring LTS release (8.04)
    *  Phliver will order CDs through ShipIt when Gutsy Gibbon becomes
       available. This way we will get stickers too.
    *  Discussed BulletProof-X (screenshots).
*   SLUG
    *  Advertise with the SLUG flyer.
    *  Talked about printing a few copies of Full Circle Magazine to
       pass around at future meetings. We will start posting new
       releases on our website.
    *  We would like to buy some of these Ubuntu logo decals to pass
       out/sell.
    *  A few of us are going to look into pricing for other Ubuntu/SLUG
       related stickers.
*   Misc.
    *  Briefly discussed Buffalo routers and Wireless Distribution
       System, Which is supported by dd-wrt and the like.
    *  O'Reilly books for doing reviews.
    *  Future presentation ideas. We will videotape these for the
       website.
    *  Jeff showed off his "Linux stamp" prototype ([project
       page](http://opencircuits.com/Linuxstamp)), and showed videos of
       the process (posted soon).
    *  Dusty peeled the windows sticker off of his notebook :)

