Title: Minutes 2010-02-18
Date: 2010-02-18
Category: minutes 
Slug: minutes/2010-02-18
Tags: security, firewall, advocacy
Authors: stevenix

Location
========

Siouxland Libraries Ronning Branch near 49th and Southeastern at 6:30pm

Agenda
======

The room will open at 6pm for setup.

A few business items:

*   Program ideas for upcoming meetings
*   Scouting a permanent meeting location
*   Places that may be willing to display meeting posters?
*   Other business items the group wants to discuss.

Presentations on:

*   Security testing / Firewall testing
*   Hulu on Linux Demo

Conclude with an open discussion period.

The library closes at 9pm

Minutes
=======

Prepared by Glenn

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
The meeting started with advice to a Microsoft Windows user who was
attending after her machine had been infected by a Windows virus for the
second time.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

She was encouraged to try a Linux live CD on her machine, as a way of
trying Linux without committing to an installation. The group was
enthusiastic about Linux, but advised her that it may not be a solution
for her if she is interested in running proprietary-only software, such
as iTunes.

Program Topics
--------------

The group expressed interest in Alex's offer to present a program on
high-availability tools and/or network monitoring tools. Glenn will
contact Alex about the program.

The group also showed an interest in VoIP on Linux.

Meeting Places
--------------

Glenn reported that the Ronning Branch meeting room may not be an ideal
place for the SLUG to meet regularly: The library reserves the right to
preempt the SLUG meetings if the space is needed for a library-sponsored
event or group.

The SLUG discussed other meeting venues, including restaurants with
meeting rooms and a private conference room. Jerry and Glenn will
explore these options and report at the March meeting.

### Publicity

The group offered a list of places where meeting posters and SLUG
brochures could be placed. Glenn will incorporate at least some of the
locations in future publicity efforts.

Security Testing
----------------

Jerry gave an extensive tour of the Linux-based [Untangle
Firewall](http://www.untangle.com/), and led discussion about firewalls
and security settings.

The group had a sometimes-spirited discussion about [GRC's
ShieldsUP](https://www.grc.com/x/ne.dll?bh0bkyd2) website and the
significance of its pass/fail ratings.

The meeting time ran out before Rob could give his Hulu on Linux demo.

Eleven people attended the meeting. One mailing list member stopped in
before the meeting, but had to leave due to a scheduling conflict.

March Meeting
-------------

The SLUG will meet again at 6:30pm on [Thursday, Mar.
18](Meetings:2010-03-18 "wikilink"), at the Siouxland Libraries - Oak
View Branch in northeast Sioux Falls. The meeting room will open at 6pm
The Oak View Branch is located at 3700 E. Third St., near the
intersection of Third Street and North Bahnson Avenue.

March's topic -- Linux From Scratch demonstration

Anyone interested in presenting a short (5- to 10-minute) talk and
demonstration in March should contact Glenn.

We plan to have free Linux live CDs for anyone interested in trying a
new distribution or in trying Linux for the first time.

Future topics
-------------

VoIP, high-availability tools, video streaming, vendor presentations,
general help session.
