Title: Minutes 2010-06-17
Date: 2010-06-17
Category: minutes
Slug: minutes/2010-06-17
Tags: demo, security, presentation
Authors: stevenix

Location
========

Oak View Branch of the Siouxland Libraries in Sioux Falls, Room 3 at
6:30pm.

Agenda
======

Remote Control: Secure Access in GNU/Linux
------------------------------------------

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
Dustin and Rob will demonstrate some secure remote access utilities for
controlling Linux, Mac, and Windows boxes over the internet.

This is a demo night, so once Dustin and Rob are done, anyone can take
the floor and show off some cool and useful software.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

Asking the Right Questions -- New User session
----------------------------------------------

Before the regular meeting, Glenn will present "Asking the Right
Questions," which will give questions that new users should ask before
diving into a Linux distribution. Anyone is welcome to jump in to share
advice and experience.

The New User session is also a time for new users to seek help for any
problems they may be having with the Linux learning curve.

Linux experts and novices are encouraged to attend this early session.

The room will open at 5pm.

Live CDs
--------

We will have free bootable CDs for folks who want to try GNU/Linux
without installing it on their computer. Distributions will include
Linux Mint 9, Ubuntu 10.04, Kubuntu 10.04, Xubuntu 10.04, and various
flavors of Debian.

Directions
----------

To get to the Oak View branch from Sixth Street, turn north onto North
Bahnson Ave. and drive three blocks to Third Street. The library is
located at the northeast corner of the intersection.

From Sycamore Avenue, turn west on Third Street until you near the North
Bahnson intersection (about six blocks). The library will be on your
right.

There is no cost to attend the meeting or to join. New members are
welcome!

Minutes
=======

On behalf of the SLUG, I would like to extend a big thank you to Dustin
an Rob for their presentations on Thursday night.

Both bravely ventured into unknown territory -- using remote control
software over the library's wireless connection -- and both succeeded!

Good job, guys!

--Glenn
