Title: Minutes 2010-01-21
Date: 2010-01-21
Category: minutes
Slug: minutes/2010-01-21
Tags: linux from scratch, distros
Authors: stevenix

Location
========

The Pizza Ranch on 41st St. at 6:30pm

Agenda
======

Minutes
=======

Prepared by Glenn

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
Ten people gathered for an informal meeting to determine the current
level of interest in open source software and the Siouxland Linux Users
Group.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

Attendees shared information about the Linux distributions they run and
discussed troubles compiling Linux from Scratch version 6.5.

Favorite web browsers, file system troubles, favorite meta search sites,
search techniques, and Richard Stallman were also topics of a
wide-ranging conversation.

The group discussed future meeting times and locations, and the
importance of being consistent, once a schedule and workable location
have been established.

The SLUG will meet again at [6:30 p.m. on Thursday, Feb.
18](Meetings:2010-02-18 "wikilink"), at the Siouxland Libraries Ronning
Branch in southeast Sioux Falls. The meeting room will open at 6 p.m.

February's topic -- Security Testing / Firewall Testing

There will be a short Hulu on Linux demonstration.

The group will also have free live CDs available for anyone interested
in trying a new distribution or in trying Linux for the first time.

March's topic -- Linux from Scratch demonstration.

Future topics -- Video streaming, vendor presentations, general help
session, newbie night.
