Title: Minutes 2004-01-30
Date: 2004-01-30
Category: minutes 
Slug: minutes/2004-01-30
Tags: Install fest, encryption, organizational 
Authors: stevenix

Location
--------

Date: January 30, 2004 at 5:30pm

Agenda
------

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
Organizational Meeting
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

Minutes
-------

Note taker: opello

* Date and time of the meetings.
  * Friday seems to work out.
* Mailing list
  * Going to a discussions + announcements mailing list
  * Tips and tricks section archived from discussion mailing list showing 'our best tricks'
* Meeting room
  * We are shooting for a public place, and at little or no cost.
  * To be coordinated over the mailing list
* Install Fest
  * An install fest might be a good idea.
  * We decided we should pick a specific distro and stick to it to create less confusion.
    * Pick a date
    * Find a place with enough room
* Presentations
  * next month - vector doing ip / firewall / tunnels / security
* Book Reviews
  * Introduce and view a sample of the book reviews
  * Deciding whether to do a library type concept and check out books, or have drawings for them. looks like we are leaning towards a library idea?
  * Let us know if your willing to do a book review.
* Shirts, Hoodies, Stickers, Case badges
  * Looking around for prices
  * Nixon, resident graphics guy, playing around with logos and layouts.
    * slogan contest / submit ideas
* SLUG Officers
  * Need slightly more formal system of governing SLUG
    * Executive committee to deal with things and be responsible
    * Treasurer
    * Chairperson
* Various topics of discussion include:
* embedded Linux
* plausible denyability encryption
* various bouts of awkward silence
  * voluntary dues

