Title: Minutes 2010-05-20
Date: 2010-05-20
Category: minutes
Slug: minutes/2010-05-20
Tags: voip, distros, mint, synergy, pfsense, m0n0wall, virtualization 
Authors: stevenix

Location
========

Oak View Branch of the Siouxland Libraries in Sioux Falls, Room 3 at
6:30pm

Agenda
======

Speak Freely: Open Source Voice over IP
---------------------------------------

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
Steve and Rob will recount their adventures in open source VoIP
applications during May's Siouxland Linux Users Group meeting. They
learned some important lessons about hardware that works (and doesn't
work) and software configuration for VoIP.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

Meet Linux Mint
---------------

New User session at 5:30 p.m.

Before the regular meeting, Glenn will present a brief introduction to
Linux Mint, a more polished version of Ubuntu.

"Meet Linux Mint" will kick off the SLUG's New User session, a time for
new users to seek help for any problems they may be having with the
Linux learning curve.

Linux experts and novices are encouraged to attend this early session.
The room will open at 5pm.

Live CDs
--------

We will have free bootable CDs for folks who want to try GNU/Linux
without installing it on their computer. Distributions will include
Linux Mint 8 (and rc 9), Ubuntu 10.04, Kubuntu 10.04, and various
flavors of Debian.

Location Directions
-------------------

To get to the Oak View branch from the west, take Sixth Street east to
North Bahnson Ave. Turn left at the light, and drive three blocks north
to Third Street. The library is located at the northeast corner of the
intersection.

From the east, drive west from Sycamore Avenue on Third Street until you
near North Bahnson (about six blocks). The library will be on your
right.

There is no cost to attend the meeting or to join. New members are
welcome!

Minutes
=======

Prepared by Glenn

Speak Freely: Open Source Voice over IP
---------------------------------------

Steve and Rob gave an overview of voice over IP services currently
available, including the open source
[Asterisk](http://www.asterisk.org/) server and
[FreePBX](http://www.freepbx.org/) configuration manager. They also
explained a number of possible configurations of Asterisk for home and
business use.

The hardware requirements for Asterisk and FreePBX are minimal: Rob uses
an Athlon 64 single core processor and rarely sees a processor load.
Using several codecs (required if you use a mix of phone brands) could
cause the processor load to climb, he said.

Specialized modules are available to connect the Asterisk server to
other voice services, such as [Google
Voice](https://www.google.com/voice).

Steve and Rob also talked about how their Asterisk servers connect to
the telephone system through services like
[vitelity.com](http://vitelity.com/), which allow VoIP users to choose
an area code from a list of available numbers. Callers from that area
dial a local number and so do not pay long-distance charges, regardless
of where the VoIP server is located.

They also covered the different types of VoIP hardware available, and
issues with 911 calling, which can be addressed by services offered by
VoIP companies like [vitelity.com](http://vitelity.com/).

An informal Q-and-A session followed the presentation.

New User Session
----------------

The SLUG's first New User session kicked off with Glenn giving an
overview of Linux Mint 9.

Linux Mint 9, released May 18, is a distribution based on Ubuntu's 10.04
LTS version "Lucid Lynx." Security updates will be available to 2013.

Glenn highlighted some of the differences between Mint and other
distributions: the ease of installing and removing software (open or
proprietary), the use of the search function within the Mint Menu, and
the ratings given to system updates.

Participants received Linux Mint 9 live CDs to try on their machines at
home.

Topic Suggestions
-----------------

The group discussed topics for future meetings:

-   Virtualization in Linux
-   Pfsense and m0n0wall
-   Synergy and XDMCP

Attendance
----------

Fourteen people attended the May meeting.
