Title: Minutes 2010-10-21
Date: 2010-10-21
Category: minutes
Slug: minutes/2010-10-21
Tags: bsd, freebsd, wiki
Authors: stevenix

Location
========

Siouxland Libraries Oak View Branch in Sioux Falls, Room 3 at 6:30pm.

Agenda
======

<!-- PELICAN_BEGIN_SUMMARY -->
Adam will discuss the differences (and similarities) between BSD and
Linux.
<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

We are still looking for 5- to 10-minute demos for October's meeting.

If you've tried a new distribution or found an open source program that
makes your computer more useful, show it to the club. A laptop is
available for these demos, so you don't need to bring your own machine.

To volunteer, contact Glenn (dakota.son at gmail.com).

Minutes
=======

Prepared by Glenn

Intro to BSD
------------

This month, the club got a glimpse into the world of the BSD (Berkeley
Software Distribution) operating systems, with comparisons between
FreeBSD to Debian Linux.

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_Software_Distribution>

Adam, who has used FreeBSD since 1997, spoke about how the BSD system
includes both a kernel and userland applications, unlike a Linux
distribution, in which the kernel has been developed separate from the
GNU userland applications.

<http://www.freebsd.org/>

The main configuration tool in BSD is the sysinstall application, which
is run on installation, but can be run to reconfigure system settings at
any time.

In FreeBSD, upgrades are usually a two-step process, in which the kernel
and userland are upgraded first, followed by any third-party
applications.

Adam also introduced the FreeBSD ports system. In FreeBSD, software can
be installed either via packages, which are pre-compiled binaries, or
via the ports tree, a directory that contains links to the source code
of thousands of software packages and default makefiles for compiling
them.

Port management tools, such as portmaster, provide dependency resolution
similar to Debian's apt-get command.

<http://dougbarton.us/portmaster.html>

The single most important document when learning FreeBSD is the FreeBSD
Handbook , Adam said. The handbook contains information about Unix
basics, as well as clear How-Tos for advanced topics.

<http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/>

The BSDs generally include a Linux compatibility layer, which allows BSD
users to run Linux applications in a chroot environment. Since the
conversion is only in system calls, the Linux applications run at near
native speed, he said.

Adam also discussed using GEOM to create a mirrored disk RAID with five
commands, and some of the features of ZFS, the self-healing file system
developed by Sun.

Hackerspace
-----------

Steve, Dusty, Rob, and Dan are planning to create a local hackerspace. A
hackerspace is a physical space that allows people to meet and work on
projects and participate in workshops.

<http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/>

They would like your help and your input.

The next hackerspace meeting will be at 7 pm on Thursday, Nov. 11, at
the Caribou Coffee shop at 1924 S. Minnesota Ave. in Sioux Falls.

For more info, visit:

<http://mooncitylabs.org>

Other Business
--------------

Dan and Steve have converted the SLUG's website to a new wiki-based
site. Club members are welcome to register and edit pages.

Thanks to Dan and Steve for all their hard work!

Help Session
------------

The evening began with a new member reporting problems getting Linux
Mint to work with a Kodak ESP 3 printer and a web cam.

Members gave their initial advice, and he was given a web page to check.
Discussion will continue on the mailing list.

Attendance
----------

In all, 13 people attended the meeting, including two new mailing list
members.

November Meeting
----------------

The SLUG will meet on Thursday, Nov. 18, at the Siouxland Libraries Oak
View Branch in Room 3. The room will open at 5 pm for setup.

A general help session will begin at 5:30 pm.

At 6:30 pm, Dusty will show us how to improve our use of The Gimp (GNU
Image Manipulation Program).

We welcome anyone willing to do a 5- to 10-minute demonstration for
November's meeting.

If you've tried a new distribution or found an open source program that
makes your computer more useful, show it to the club. A laptop is
available for these demos, so you don't need to bring your own machine.

To volunteer, contact Glenn (dakota.son at gmail.com).

December topic
--------------

Dinner at Tommy Jack's Pub - details TBA
